Architects: UAD
Area: 6425 m²
Year: 2019
The designing process began in late spring. After trekking through verdant and thriving mountains, we ultimately arrived at this tranquil valley with an oblique east-west strike. Amidst the undulating hills scatter several residential houses constructed from stone or brick. Behind those houses, we could see cascades of rice fields, above which there were scattered "field stones", constituting a special and beautiful field scenery... That is where the museum is located. As we got closer, we noticed that the base was higher in the south and lower in the north. Two vague streams were converging among the veins of mountains. A century-old camphor tree was growing vibrantly at the center of the base, pointing its sturdy branches stretching toward the north as if it was resisting the slope of the base. Mountains, fields, trees, and stones composed our first impression of the base.、
 Sanqing Mountain enjoys a widespread reputation both at home and abroad upon becoming a world natural heritage and a world geopark. In its geologic history, it has witnessed 1.4 billion years of stupendous changes, including three major transgressions and multiple geological conformation movements. The unique geotectonic environment that Sanqing Mountain has the most systematically preserved records and most typical exposures of plate collisions between the Yangtze paleo-plate and the Cathaysian paleo-plate, which is at the boundary between the Eurasian Plate and the southeast Pacific Plate. In the meantime, Sanqing Mountain serves as a natural museum to display the formation and evolution of granite micro-landforms to the world. The rock wonders formed by its paleo-plate collisions act as the most striking geological features of Sanqing Mountain.
地质特征。三清山成为世界自然遗产和世界地质公园，在国内外享有广泛声誉。在地质史上，它经历了14亿年的巨大变化，包括3次重大海侵和多次地质构造运动。三清山独特的大地构造环境，是欧亚板块与东南太平洋板块交界处，保存最系统的扬子古板块与华夏古板块碰撞记录和最典型的板块碰撞暴露。同时，三清山又成为一座天然博物馆，向世人展示花岗岩微地貌的形成和演化。古板块碰撞形成的岩石奇观是三清山最引人注目的地质特征。
1. Architectural Form. The design of the Sanqingshan Geological Museum is initially inspired by the understanding of its geological origins and the abstraction and composition of its form. This covers the compression and movement of two major tectonic plates, includes the mutual transgressions between mountains and seas, and shows Sanqing Mountain's granite development characterized by dominantly longitudinal and auxiliarily transverse and horizontal joints and broomstick fissures. Therefore, the architectural form exhibits bi-directional compression and develops longitudinal fissures and extensions in strips and blocks. Further, it is cut, separated, transversely shifted, and sheared, depicting the impact of "geological forces" on the form. The architectural form seamlessly integrates the analysis and processing of site topography and runoff patterns. According to the south-north sloping of the site and the gradual changes of the contour line, the building further turns and bends, forming a well-organized half-enclosure with the century-old camphor tree as the core. Furthermore, the building separates the east and west blocks, which echoes the mountain trends with vast vacant space and overhead crossing. The original streams are converged and diverted to the front square and the grand scenic area water system, forming an integral creation.
Interior Space. The logic for the generation of the building's architectural form also extends to the creation of its interior space. Visitors start from the gentle slope at the northeast entrance of the site, cross below the luxuriant ancient tree, and then arrive at the museum entrance and see the hall. The overall exhibition route begins here, and visitors can ascend to the first floor from the east section, pass the corridor to the west hall, then descend back to the first floor, and see the exit where you can see the square, the camphor tree, and the mountains afar. The indoor design is based on the "geological movement", giving people the feeling of walking between the rocks of Sanqing Mountain. It combines high and low, dim and bright, and separation and connection. With certain twists and turns, it properly embodies geological movement "images" like extrusions, rheology, cutting, and crossing. In terms of functional layout, the east section of the museum leans more toward the theme of geology and landforms, featuring special exhibition areas for geology, landforms, biodiversity, mountain landscape ecology, etc. The west section is more about temporary exhibitions, planning displays, red themes, research, and other supplementary displays and museum service functions. In this way, it can be open while staying relatively independent to achieve orderly and rational zoning without losing characteristics.
2.内部空间。建筑物建筑形式的生成逻辑也延伸到其内部空间的创造。参观者从遗址东北入口的缓坡出发，穿过茂密的古树下，到达博物馆入口，看到大厅。整体展览路线从这里开始，参观者可以从东区上升到一楼，通过走廊到达西大厅，然后下降回到一楼，看到出口可以看到广场、樟树，还有远处的山。室内设计以“地质运动”为主题，给人以行走在三清山岩石之间的感觉。它集高与低、暗与明、分离与联系于一体。它以一定的曲折，恰当地体现了挤压、流变、切割、交叉等地质运动“形象”。在功能布局上，博物馆东区更偏向地质地貌主题，设有地质、地貌、生物多样性、山地景观生态等专题展区；西区则更多以临时展览、规划展示为主。 、红色主题、研究等补充展示和博物馆服务功能。这样既可以开放，又可以保持相对独立，实现有序合理的分区，又不失特色。
3. External Landscape. The project base adopts the tradition of using local aggregates to construct the wall base and wall body of the original residential houses. Century-old camphor tree is a common species in Jiangnan (regions south of the Yangtze River) villages and often marks the entrance of a village or the center of outdoor events. Meanwhile, the base's original terrace field is also a natural "living" landscape of artificial cultivation. Therefore, the external landscape design of our new building will also preserve the ancient tree as the core. The mountain behind the museum will be in a terrace form with a gentle slope and adopt local rubbles for the enclosure to complete the new recreation of the existing landform and people's lives. Moreover, the theme of water is also a key factor in geological movement (mutual transgression of mountains and seas). The design makes the best of the circumstances, combines the front square and back mountain terrace, and adopts the form of descending "pond field". During wet seasons, it can act as a floodway for the existing streams. During general seasons, it can hold a shallow water body. During dry seasons, the gravel at the bottom will be exposed. In this way, the theme is displayed in a variety of forms. What's more, the forest within the base is utilized and properly transformed into an outdoor exhibition booth, connecting the ancient camphor square, flat bridge below the corridor, cascaded pond field, and mountain trails and forming the outdoor exhibition route. In this way, the museum is built into a pan-museum building without enclosure, better improving the public's immersive experience with the building, nature, and the exhibits. These outdoor exhibition venues and routes will also provide the museum with more space to expand for future openings and collections. 
4. Structure and Construction. In terms of structure and construction, the museum mainly adopts reinforced concrete frames and locally cast-in-place reinforced concrete walls. The bridges adopt underhanging steel structures. The building structures exhibit a cracking style. The fissures are enclosed and protected with glass, resembling the lava or sea water during ground motions. They are lighting parts for the traffic, central hall, and other special spaces inside the building in the daytime and become "light through walls" in the nighttime. The solid curtain wall of the outer facade adopts the stones from the same mountain system 40 kilometers away. The surface adopts mechanical grooving plus manual pitching, realizing vertical coarse texture, which is like the re-fortification for the frictions and diastrophism of geological movement. The square and the landscape terrace field also adopt a great amount of local stones. For example, the square adopts bush-hammered stones, the "pond field" adopts gravel for the bottom pavement, and the terrace barricade adopts local rubbles as the material and the "tiger-skin wall" as the construction mode, integrating the new building with the primitive environment. 